docs/source/configuration_files.rst, before:

.. See LICENSE.incore for details

.. highlight:: shell

.. _configuration_files:

#######################
UTG Configuration Files
#######################

UTG makes use of 3 configuration files.

  1. ``config.ini`` - UTG Configuration file.
  2. ``dut_config.yaml`` - DUT Configuration file for test filtering.
  3. ``aliasing.yaml`` - File with alias for verilog signal names. (used
     when generating covergroups)

When specified, UTG also generates a ``test_list.yaml`` file along with the tests.

In this document, we try to explain the need to have these files as well throw 
some light on the format of these documents, so that the user can write/edit the
configuration file, as necessary. 

In order to provide a headstart, the ``utg setup`` command will generate 
template ``config.ini``, ``dut_config.yaml`` and ``aliasing.yaml`` files.

============================
``config.ini`` Specification
============================

The ``config.ini`` file is used to specify the arguments required by UTG to 
generate tests. The user may choose to use the subcommands to manually perform 
the same tasks and decide to not use a ``config.ini`` file.

Configuration Options
---------------------

.. note:: Information about the ``dut_config.yaml``, ``aliasing.yaml`` and 
   ``test_list.yaml`` are provided in the following sections.

.. warning:: All paths are absolute.

.. tabularcolumns:: |l|L|

.. table:: General Configuration Options

  =================== =========================================================
  Parameter           Description
  =================== =========================================================
  verbose             The verbosity of the log generated by the tool.
  clean               [Boolean] Option to clean the files created duting test
                      generation. Clean will clean up all files, including the 
                      tests.
  modules             The Modules of the DUT for which you wish to generate the 
                      tests. (will take multiple values)
  module_dir          **Absolute** path to the directory where the user has 
                      saved the tests for all modules.
  work_dir            The workdir where all of the files, reports and logs are 
                      generated.
  linker_dir          The directory where the user has stored his ``link.ld`` file.
                      If not specified, UTG will generate a linker at the work_dir.
  dut_config          The **absolute** path to the ``dut_config.yaml`` file of 
                      the DUT for which the user wants to generate tests. 
  alias_file          The **absolute** path to the ``aliasing.yaml`` file of 
                      the DUT for which the user wants to generate covergroups.       
  gen_test_list       [Boolean] Creates a ``test_list.yaml`` file in the 
                      ``work_dir``.
  gen_test            [Boolean] UTG generates tests only when this is True. Else, 
                      UTG does nothing.
  val_test            [Boolean] When True, UTG will check the log generated from 
                      the DUT against known log patterns to obtain an intial 
                      report of test coverage.
  gen_cvg             [Boolean] When True, UTG will generate the covergroups for 
                      the tests.
  =================== =========================================================

.. note:: The standard delimiter for options having multiple values is **,**
    (comma).

Sample ``config.ini``
---------------------

.. code-block:: ini
   :linenos:

    [utg]

    # [info, error, debug] set verbosity level to view different levels of messages.
    verbose = debug
    # [True, False] the clean flag removes unnecessary files from the previous runs and cleans directories
    clean = 

    # Enter the modules whose tests are to be generated/validated in comma separated format.
    # Run 'utg --list-modules to find all the modules that are supported. '
    # Use 'all' to generate/validate all modules
    modules = all

    # Absolute path of the uarch_modules/modules Directory
    module_dir = /home/user/work/InCore/chromite_uarch_tests/modules/
    # Directory to dump assembly files and reports
    work_dir = /home/user/work/InCore/micro-arch-tests/work
    # location to store the link.ld linker file. By default it's same as work_dir
    linker_dir = /home/user/work/InCore/micro-arch-tests/work

    # Path of the yaml file containing DUT Configuration.
    # By default the configuration is "utg/target/dut_config.yaml"
    dut_config = /home/user/work/InCore/micro-arch-tests/utg/target/dut_config.yaml
    # Absolute Path of the yaml file containing the signal aliases of the DUT
    # presently it is stored in 'uarch_modules/aliasing.yaml'
    alias_file = /home/user/work/InCore/chromite_uarch_tests/aliasing.yaml

    # [True, False] If the gen_test_list flag is True, the test_list.yaml needed for running tests in river_core are generated automatically.
    # Until you want to validate individual tests in river_core set the flag to True
    gen_test_list = True
    # [True, False] If the gen_test flag is True, assembly files are generated/overwritten
    gen_test = True
    # [True, False] If the val_test flag is True, assembly files are executed and the modules are validated
    val_test = 
    # [True, False] If the gen_cvg flag is True, System Verilog cover-groups are generated
    gen_cvg = True

   
=================================
``dut_config.yaml`` Specification
=================================

The ``dut_config.yaml`` file is the configuration file used to configure the DUT.
This file should contain information about the hardware units present in the DUT
as well as provide information about the ISA and off-core components like cache
supported/present in the unit.

Usually such a yaml file is used to generate a core of required configuration 
from an existing, highly parameterizable base design. In the case of ``Chromite``
, we have such configuration ``yaml`` file which we use to selectively 
generate tests based on the hardware units present in the DUT.

This ``dut_config.yaml`` will be used by the test classes as well as the test 
generator to identify tests that can suitably exercise functional coverpoints 
in the design as well as parameterize the test to exploit the hardware features 
to the fullest.

Sample ``dut_config.yaml``
--------------------------

.. code-block:: yaml
    :linenos:


    ISA: RV64IMAFDCSU
    iepoch_size: 2
    depoch_size: 1
    dtvec_base: 256
    s_extension:
      mode: sv39
      itlb_size: 4
      dtlb_size: 4
      asid_width: 9
    pmp: 
      enable: true
      entries: 4
      granularity: 8
    m_extension:
      mul_stages: 1
      div_stages: 32
    branch_predictor:
      instantiate: True
      predictor: gshare
      on_reset: enable
      btb_depth: 64
      bht_depth: 512
      history_len: 8
      history_bits: 5
      ras_depth: 8
    icache_configuration:
      instantiate: true
      on_reset: enable
      sets: 64
      word_size: 4
      block_size: 16
      ways: 4
      fb_size: 4
      replacement: RR
      ecc_enable: false
      one_hot_select: false
    dcache_configuration:
      instantiate: true
      on_reset: enable
      sets: 64
      word_size: 8
      block_size: 8
      ways: 4
      fb_size: 8
      sb_size: 2
      replacement: RR
      ecc_enable: false
      one_hot_select: false
      rwports: 1
    reset_pc: 4096
    physical_addr_size: 32
    bus_protocol: AXI4
    fpu_trap: false
    debugger_support: false
    no_of_triggers: 0
    csr_configuration:
      structure: daisy
      counters_in_grp4: 7
      counters_in_grp5: 7
      counters_in_grp6: 7
      counters_in_grp7: 8

The text shown above is in the yaml format. These key-value pairs are used to 
configure the *chromite* core.

If you notice, the yaml file contains everything from the ISA chosen, cache
configuration to the number of CSRs. To explain, let us consider the 
``branch_predictor`` key of the yaml file.

.. tabularcolumns:: |l|L|

.. table:: Parameters in Branch Predictor 

  =================== =========================================================
  Parameter           Description
  =================== =========================================================
  instantiate         indicates if the branch predictor (BPU) is present in the 
                      core
  predictor           denotes the type of predictor implemented
  on_reset            denotes if the BPU will be enabled after resetting the core
  btb_depth           depth of the Branch target Buffer(BTB) in the gshare BPU
  bht_depth           depth of the Branch History Table(BHT) in the gshare BPU 
  history_len         width of the Global History Register(GHR).
  history_bits        bits of the Global History Register which is actually used
                      for predicting based on history.
  ras_depth           depth of the Return Address Stack used for storing return
                      address of Call statements
  =================== =========================================================

Similar to this, you can find the configuration of other similar units present 
in the core from the ``dut_config.yaml`` file. The paramters obtained from the
section like branch predictor will be particularly useful when tests are to be 
targeted.

The following snippet shows how the parameters of the branch predictor from the 
config file will be used to create a targeted test for exercising the BPU.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    def execute(self, _dut_dict):
        _en_bpu = _bpu_dict['instantiate']
        self._btb_depth = _bpu_dict['btb_depth']
        if _en_bpu and self._btb_depth:
            return True
        else:
            return False

The snippet above is from the test class which tries to fill the entire Branch
Target Buffer (BTB) of a branch predictor unit (G-Share Fully Associative) with
jump, call, return and conditional branch instructions.

.. note:: The _dut_dict argument shown here contains only the values associated
   with the ``branch_predictor`` key from the yaml file shown earlier. The
   UTG-test_generator will send only the values present in the key which matches 
   the module for which said test was written for.

Here, the *execute()* method reads the value of ``instantiate`` in the bpu 
section of the ``dut_config.yaml`` into the ``_en_bpu`` variable. It also stores 
the depth of the ``BTB`` in the variable ``_btb_depth``. As this test is meant
to exercise the BPU, there is no point to generate the test if the BPU is not 
instantiated. Likewise, it is necessary that the *btb_depth* is greater than one.
Hence, we use these conditions to decide if the test which we have in the test_class
would prove worthwhile when run on our DUT.

Therefore, it is necessary that the user creates a similiar yaml file as shown 
earlier and update it with their DUT's configuration to make targeted test 
generation easier.


===============================
``aliasing.yaml`` Specification
===============================

The aliasing file is neccesary when the user wants to generate Covergroups
(CocoTb or SV) along with the tests. The aliasing file tries to make the 
test_class more readable. 

The Verilog generated by the BSV compiler tends to be incomprehensible and long
some times. In this case, having a alias file which can be used to alias such 
incomprehensible signal names with intelligible and logical names will make the
process of defining the ``generate_covergroups()`` method easier as well as make 
the method readable for other people who do not know the actual BSV signal names.

.. code-block:: yaml
   :linenos:

   tb_top:
     path_to_bpu: mktbsoc.soc.ccore.riscv.stage0.bpu
     path_to_decoder: mktbsoc.soc.ccore.riscv.stage2.instance_decoder_func_32_2
     path_to_stage0: mktbsoc.soc.ccore.riscv.stage0
     path_to_fn_decompress: mktbsoc.soc.ccore.riscv.stage1.instance_fn_decompress_0

   bpu:
     input:
     output:
     register:
       bpu_rg_ghr: rg_ghr_port1__read
       bpu_rg_initialize: rg_initialize
       bpu_rg_allocate: rg_allocate
     wire:
       bpu_mispredict_flag: ma_mispredict_g
       bpu_btb_tag: v_reg_btb_tag
       bpu_btb_entry: v_reg_btb_entry
       bpu_ras_top_index: ras_stack_top_index_port2__read
       bpu_btb_tag_valid: btb_valids

   test_case:
     test: regression

The block above shows a sample aliasing file which has the signals in the 
``branch_predictor(bpu)`` aliased. In addition to that, we also have the 
hierarchical paths to the modules to be used in the top module of the test bench
defined here. Most of the times, the names generated by the BSV complier is 
very intelligible as shown in the above example. But, aliasing the signal names 
would make the process of writing/understanding code much easier.

As shown, the *input*, *output*, *register* and *wire* present in the module need
to be separately organized in the yaml file. This makes selection of files even
more easier as we do not have to indicate if the signal type in the aliased name
for readability.


================================
``test_list.yaml`` Specification
================================

When gen_test_list is true in the ``config.ini`` or when ``-t`` is passed 
with the ``utg generate`` command, UTG, apart from generating just the
test artifacts, must also generate a test list YAML. The test list has the
following syntax:

.. code-block:: yaml
   :linenos:

   <test-name>:
    asm_file: <path to assembly/C/test file generated>
    cc: <optional compile command to be used to compile the tests>
    ccargs: <optional compile arguments to be used>
    extra_compile: [<list of supplementary files to be compiled. Provided as absolute paths>]
    include: [<list of directories containing any required header file>]
    isa: <the isa string for which this test was generated for>
    linker_args: <arguments to be provided to the linker command>
    linker_file: <absolute path of the linker file to be used>
    result: <set to Unvailable during generation. Will change to Pass or Fail based on the simulation runs>
    generator: <name of the generator plugin used to generate this test>
    march: <the march argument to be supplied to the compiler>
    mabi: <the mabi argument to be supplied to the compiler>
    compile_macros: <list of strings indicating compile time macros that need to be enabled>

.. note:: While we capture the ISA, it may seem redundant to capture the march
   and mabi. However, the tests can be generated to check a subset features like
   - no compressed instructions in targets which do support compressed
   instructions. Hence the redundancy. 

.. note:: cc and ccargs are optional here because typically the target/DUT will
   have its own compiler and toolchain setup and may ignore these fields. Also
   most of the test generators are independent of the choice of toolchain and
   may leave these fields blank.

.. warning:: All the files contain an *absolute* path.

Commit message:

add warning stating ISA string is mandatory in dut_config.yaml

docs/source/configuration_files.rst, after:

.. See LICENSE.incore for details

.. highlight:: shell

.. _configuration_files:

#######################
UTG Configuration Files
#######################

UTG makes use of 3 configuration files.

  1. ``config.ini`` - UTG Configuration file.
  2. ``dut_config.yaml`` - DUT Configuration file for test filtering.
  3. ``aliasing.yaml`` - File with alias for verilog signal names. (used
     when generating covergroups)

When specified, UTG also generates a ``test_list.yaml`` file along with the tests.

In this document, we try to explain the need to have these files as well throw 
some light on the format of these documents, so that the user can write/edit the
configuration file, as necessary. 

In order to provide a headstart, the ``utg setup`` command will generate 
template ``config.ini``, ``dut_config.yaml`` and ``aliasing.yaml`` files.

============================
``config.ini`` Specification
============================

The ``config.ini`` file is used to specify the arguments required by UTG to 
generate tests. The user may choose to use the subcommands to manually perform 
the same tasks and decide to not use a ``config.ini`` file.

Configuration Options
---------------------

.. note:: Information about the ``dut_config.yaml``, ``aliasing.yaml`` and 
   ``test_list.yaml`` are provided in the following sections.

.. warning:: All paths are absolute.

.. tabularcolumns:: |l|L|

.. table:: General Configuration Options

  =================== =========================================================
  Parameter           Description
  =================== =========================================================
  verbose             The verbosity of the log generated by the tool.
  clean               [Boolean] Option to clean the files created duting test
                      generation. Clean will clean up all files, including the 
                      tests.
  modules             The Modules of the DUT for which you wish to generate the 
                      tests. (will take multiple values)
  module_dir          **Absolute** path to the directory where the user has 
                      saved the tests for all modules.
  work_dir            The workdir where all of the files, reports and logs are 
                      generated.
  linker_dir          The directory where the user has stored his ``link.ld`` file.
                      If not specified, UTG will generate a linker at the work_dir.
  dut_config          The **absolute** path to the ``dut_config.yaml`` file of 
                      the DUT for which the user wants to generate tests. 
  alias_file          The **absolute** path to the ``aliasing.yaml`` file of 
                      the DUT for which the user wants to generate covergroups.       
  gen_test_list       [Boolean] Creates a ``test_list.yaml`` file in the 
                      ``work_dir``.
  gen_test            [Boolean] UTG generates tests only when this is True. Else, 
                      UTG does nothing.
  val_test            [Boolean] When True, UTG will check the log generated from 
                      the DUT against known log patterns to obtain an intial 
                      report of test coverage.
  gen_cvg             [Boolean] When True, UTG will generate the covergroups for 
                      the tests.
  =================== =========================================================

.. note:: The standard delimiter for options having multiple values is **,**
    (comma).

Sample ``config.ini``
---------------------

.. code-block:: ini
   :linenos:

    [utg]

    # [info, error, debug] set verbosity level to view different levels of messages.
    verbose = debug
    # [True, False] the clean flag removes unnecessary files from the previous runs and cleans directories
    clean = 

    # Enter the modules whose tests are to be generated/validated in comma separated format.
    # Run 'utg --list-modules to find all the modules that are supported. '
    # Use 'all' to generate/validate all modules
    modules = all

    # Absolute path of the uarch_modules/modules Directory
    module_dir = /home/user/work/InCore/chromite_uarch_tests/modules/
    # Directory to dump assembly files and reports
    work_dir = /home/user/work/InCore/micro-arch-tests/work
    # location to store the link.ld linker file. By default it's same as work_dir
    linker_dir = /home/user/work/InCore/micro-arch-tests/work

    # Path of the yaml file containing DUT Configuration.
    # By default the configuration is "utg/target/dut_config.yaml"
    dut_config = /home/user/work/InCore/micro-arch-tests/utg/target/dut_config.yaml
    # Absolute Path of the yaml file containing the signal aliases of the DUT
    # presently it is stored in 'uarch_modules/aliasing.yaml'
    alias_file = /home/user/work/InCore/chromite_uarch_tests/aliasing.yaml

    # [True, False] If the gen_test_list flag is True, the test_list.yaml needed for running tests in river_core are generated automatically.
    # Until you want to validate individual tests in river_core set the flag to True
    gen_test_list = True
    # [True, False] If the gen_test flag is True, assembly files are generated/overwritten
    gen_test = True
    # [True, False] If the val_test flag is True, assembly files are executed and the modules are validated
    val_test = 
    # [True, False] If the gen_cvg flag is True, System Verilog cover-groups are generated
    gen_cvg = True

   
=================================
``dut_config.yaml`` Specification
=================================

The ``dut_config.yaml`` file is the configuration file used to configure the DUT.
This file should contain information about the hardware units present in the DUT
as well as provide information about the ISA and off-core components like cache
supported/present in the unit.

Usually such a yaml file is used to generate a core of required configuration 
from an existing, highly parameterizable base design. In the case of ``Chromite``
, we have such configuration ``yaml`` file which we use to selectively 
generate tests based on the hardware units present in the DUT.

This ``dut_config.yaml`` will be used by the test classes as well as the test 
generator to identify tests that can suitably exercise functional coverpoints 
in the design as well as parameterize the test to exploit the hardware features 
to the fullest.

.. warning:: It is paramount that the user's preferring their custom 
   ``dut_config.yaml`` make sure that their file contains the ``ISA`` supported 
   by the DUT as a parameter. UTG **will throw an error and exit** if the ISA
   argument is not present in the yaml.

Sample ``dut_config.yaml``
--------------------------

.. code-block:: yaml
    :linenos:


    ISA: RV64IMAFDCSU
    iepoch_size: 2
    depoch_size: 1
    dtvec_base: 256
    s_extension:
      mode: sv39
      itlb_size: 4
      dtlb_size: 4
      asid_width: 9
    pmp: 
      enable: true
      entries: 4
      granularity: 8
    m_extension:
      mul_stages: 1
      div_stages: 32
    branch_predictor:
      instantiate: True
      predictor: gshare
      on_reset: enable
      btb_depth: 64
      bht_depth: 512
      history_len: 8
      history_bits: 5
      ras_depth: 8
    icache_configuration:
      instantiate: true
      on_reset: enable
      sets: 64
      word_size: 4
      block_size: 16
      ways: 4
      fb_size: 4
      replacement: RR
      ecc_enable: false
      one_hot_select: false
    dcache_configuration:
      instantiate: true
      on_reset: enable
      sets: 64
      word_size: 8
      block_size: 8
      ways: 4
      fb_size: 8
      sb_size: 2
      replacement: RR
      ecc_enable: false
      one_hot_select: false
      rwports: 1
    reset_pc: 4096
    physical_addr_size: 32
    bus_protocol: AXI4
    fpu_trap: false
    debugger_support: false
    no_of_triggers: 0
    csr_configuration:
      structure: daisy
      counters_in_grp4: 7
      counters_in_grp5: 7
      counters_in_grp6: 7
      counters_in_grp7: 8

The text shown above is in the yaml format. These key-value pairs are used to 
configure the *chromite* core.

If you notice, the yaml file contains everything from the ISA chosen, cache
configuration to the number of CSRs. To explain, let us consider the 
``branch_predictor`` key of the yaml file.

.. tabularcolumns:: |l|L|

.. table:: Parameters in Branch Predictor 

  =================== =========================================================
  Parameter           Description
  =================== =========================================================
  instantiate         indicates if the branch predictor (BPU) is present in the 
                      core
  predictor           denotes the type of predictor implemented
  on_reset            denotes if the BPU will be enabled after resetting the core
  btb_depth           depth of the Branch target Buffer(BTB) in the gshare BPU
  bht_depth           depth of the Branch History Table(BHT) in the gshare BPU 
  history_len         width of the Global History Register(GHR).
  history_bits        bits of the Global History Register which is actually used
                      for predicting based on history.
  ras_depth           depth of the Return Address Stack used for storing return
                      address of Call statements
  =================== =========================================================

Similar to this, you can find the configuration of other similar units present 
in the core from the ``dut_config.yaml`` file. The paramters obtained from the
section like branch predictor will be particularly useful when tests are to be 
targeted.

The following snippet shows how the parameters of the branch predictor from the 
config file will be used to create a targeted test for exercising the BPU.

.. code-block:: python
    :linenos:

    def execute(self, _dut_dict):
        _en_bpu = _bpu_dict['instantiate']
        self._btb_depth = _bpu_dict['btb_depth']
        if _en_bpu and self._btb_depth:
            return True
        else:
            return False

The snippet above is from the test class which tries to fill the entire Branch
Target Buffer (BTB) of a branch predictor unit (G-Share Fully Associative) with
jump, call, return and conditional branch instructions.

.. note:: The _dut_dict argument shown here contains only the values associated
   with the ``branch_predictor`` key from the yaml file shown earlier. The
   UTG-test_generator will send only the values present in the key which matches 
   the module for which said test was written for.

Here, the *execute()* method reads the value of ``instantiate`` in the bpu 
section of the ``dut_config.yaml`` into the ``_en_bpu`` variable. It also stores 
the depth of the ``BTB`` in the variable ``_btb_depth``. As this test is meant
to exercise the BPU, there is no point to generate the test if the BPU is not 
instantiated. Likewise, it is necessary that the *btb_depth* is greater than one.
Hence, we use these conditions to decide if the test which we have in the test_class
would prove worthwhile when run on our DUT.

Therefore, it is necessary that the user creates a similiar yaml file as shown 
earlier and update it with their DUT's configuration to make targeted test 
generation easier.


===============================
``aliasing.yaml`` Specification
===============================

The aliasing file is neccesary when the user wants to generate Covergroups
(CocoTb or SV) along with the tests. The aliasing file tries to make the 
test_class more readable. 

The Verilog generated by the BSV compiler tends to be incomprehensible and long
some times. In this case, having a alias file which can be used to alias such 
incomprehensible signal names with intelligible and logical names will make the
process of defining the ``generate_covergroups()`` method easier as well as make 
the method readable for other people who do not know the actual BSV signal names.

.. code-block:: yaml
   :linenos:

   tb_top:
     path_to_bpu: mktbsoc.soc.ccore.riscv.stage0.bpu
     path_to_decoder: mktbsoc.soc.ccore.riscv.stage2.instance_decoder_func_32_2
     path_to_stage0: mktbsoc.soc.ccore.riscv.stage0
     path_to_fn_decompress: mktbsoc.soc.ccore.riscv.stage1.instance_fn_decompress_0

   bpu:
     input:
     output:
     register:
       bpu_rg_ghr: rg_ghr_port1__read
       bpu_rg_initialize: rg_initialize
       bpu_rg_allocate: rg_allocate
     wire:
       bpu_mispredict_flag: ma_mispredict_g
       bpu_btb_tag: v_reg_btb_tag
       bpu_btb_entry: v_reg_btb_entry
       bpu_ras_top_index: ras_stack_top_index_port2__read
       bpu_btb_tag_valid: btb_valids

   test_case:
     test: regression

The block above shows a sample aliasing file which has the signals in the 
``branch_predictor(bpu)`` aliased. In addition to that, we also have the 
hierarchical paths to the modules to be used in the top module of the test bench
defined here. Most of the times, the names generated by the BSV complier is 
very intelligible as shown in the above example. But, aliasing the signal names 
would make the process of writing/understanding code much easier.

As shown, the *input*, *output*, *register* and *wire* present in the module need
to be separately organized in the yaml file. This makes selection of files even
more easier as we do not have to indicate if the signal type in the aliased name
for readability.


================================
``test_list.yaml`` Specification
================================

When gen_test_list is true in the ``config.ini`` or when ``-t`` is passed 
with the ``utg generate`` command, UTG, apart from generating just the
test artifacts, must also generate a test list YAML. The test list has the
following syntax:

.. code-block:: yaml
   :linenos:

   <test-name>:
    asm_file: <path to assembly/C/test file generated>
    cc: <optional compile command to be used to compile the tests>
    ccargs: <optional compile arguments to be used>
    extra_compile: [<list of supplementary files to be compiled. Provided as absolute paths>]
    include: [<list of directories containing any required header file>]
    isa: <the isa string for which this test was generated for>
    linker_args: <arguments to be provided to the linker command>
    linker_file: <absolute path of the linker file to be used>
    result: <set to Unvailable during generation. Will change to Pass or Fail based on the simulation runs>
    generator: <name of the generator plugin used to generate this test>
    march: <the march argument to be supplied to the compiler>
    mabi: <the mabi argument to be supplied to the compiler>
    compile_macros: <list of strings indicating compile time macros that need to be enabled>

.. note:: While we capture the ISA, it may seem redundant to capture the march
   and mabi. However, the tests can be generated to check a subset features like
   - no compressed instructions in targets which do support compressed
   instructions. Hence the redundancy. 

.. note:: cc and ccargs are optional here because typically the target/DUT will
   have its own compiler and toolchain setup and may ignore these fields. Also
   most of the test generators are independent of the choice of toolchain and
   may leave these fields blank.

.. warning:: All the files contain an *absolute* path.
